README.md, before:

# Hi there 👋 I'm Pietro Di Leo

**Operations Officer** | **Quantitative Finance Graduate** | MSc in *Finance and Quantitative Methods for Economics* (LM-16)  
Currently working in a **Custody Company** in Malta, while actively building expertise in **financial data analysis, backtesting, and portfolio optimization** using R and Python.

📍 Malta | 🌍 Working on Data Analysis, Quantitative Research, and Asset Management  
📧 dileopie@gmail.com | 🔗 [LinkedIn Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/pietrodileo)

### I work with:
![R](https://img.shields.io/badge/R-276DC3?style=for-the-badge&logo=r&logoColor=white)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Jupyter Notebook](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?style=for-the-badge&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white)
![NumPy](https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?style=for-the-badge&logo=numpy&logoColor=white)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=for-the-badge&logo=pandas&logoColor=white)
![ggplot2](https://img.shields.io/badge/ggplot2-64C7CF?style=for-the-badge&logo=r&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)

### Currently:
- 🔢 Enhancing my skills in Python for financial data analysis and automation
- 📈 Building a public portfolio of empirical finance projects (backtesting, ETF analysis, portfolio optimization)
- 💼 Transitioning from operations to data-driven finance roles — with a focus on **freelance, remote, and research-oriented positions**
- 🧪 Maintaining a disciplined approach to learning: structured, project-based, and results-focused

### My Master’s Thesis:
🎓 ["Empirical Comparison: S&P 500, iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (IVV), and Fidelity Contrafund (FCNTX)"](https://github.com/DLPietro/thesis-backtesting-etf-spx)  
Used R to conduct a 10-year empirical analysis (2013–2023) comparing passive vs. active fund performance, including:
- Linear regression on log-returns
- GARCH modeling for volatility
- Backtesting of three portfolio strategies (Equally Weighted, Mean-Variance, Mean-CVaR)
- Performance metrics: Sharpe Ratio, Maximum Drawdown, Tracking Error

👉 Full code, analysis, and results available [here](https://github.com/DLPietro/thesis-backtesting-etf-spx)


# Let's connect!! 🌍

Commit message:

feat: new link in README.md
feat: add learning roadmap's link

it will shows the learning process using pyhton, jupiter and libraries as pandas, yfinance, etc.

README.md, after:

# Hi there 👋 I'm Pietro Di Leo

**Operations Officer** | **Quantitative Finance Graduate** | MSc in *Finance and Quantitative Methods for Economics* (LM-16)  
Currently working in a **Custody Company** in Malta, while actively building expertise in **financial data analysis, backtesting, and portfolio optimization** using R and Python.

📍 Malta | 🌍 Working on Data Analysis, Quantitative Research, and Asset Management  
📧 dileopie@gmail.com | 🔗 [LinkedIn Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/pietrodileo)

### I work with:
![R](https://img.shields.io/badge/R-276DC3?style=for-the-badge&logo=r&logoColor=white)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Jupyter Notebook](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?style=for-the-badge&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white)
![NumPy](https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?style=for-the-badge&logo=numpy&logoColor=white)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=for-the-badge&logo=pandas&logoColor=white)
![ggplot2](https://img.shields.io/badge/ggplot2-64C7CF?style=for-the-badge&logo=r&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)

### Currently:
- 🔢 Enhancing my skills in Python for financial data analysis and automation
- 📈 Building a public portfolio of empirical finance projects (backtesting, ETF analysis, portfolio optimization)
- 💼 Transitioning from operations to data-driven finance roles — with a focus on **freelance, remote, and research-oriented positions**
- 🧪 Maintaining a disciplined approach to learning: structured, project-based, and results-focused

### 🌱 **Learning Journey**

I believe in **structured, intentional growth**. To stay on track, I maintain a public **[Learning Roadmap](https://github.com/DLPietro/learning-roadmap)** that outlines my goals, milestones, and resources across data science, engineering, and analysis best practices.

📘 **Explore my roadmap**:  
👉 [github.com/DLPietro/learning-roadmap](https://github.com/DLPietro/learning-roadmap)

This repository reflects my commitment to transparency, consistency, and continuous improvement.

### Quant Analysis:
🎓 ["Empirical Comparison: S&P 500, iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (IVV), and Fidelity Contrafund (FCNTX)"](https://github.com/DLPietro/thesis-backtesting-etf-spx)  
Used R to conduct a 10-year empirical analysis (2013–2023) comparing passive vs. active fund performance, including:
- Linear regression on log-returns
- GARCH modeling for volatility
- Backtesting of three portfolio strategies (Equally Weighted, Mean-Variance, Mean-CVaR)
- Performance metrics: Sharpe Ratio, Maximum Drawdown, Tracking Error

👉 Full code, analysis, and results available [here](https://github.com/DLPietro/thesis-backtesting-etf-spx)

### 📊 **GitHub Stats** (Optional)

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=DLPietro&show_icons=true&theme=radical&layout=compact" width="48%"/>
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=DLPietro&layout=compact&theme=radical" width="48%"/>
</p>

> *Stats update automatically. Hover to see details!*


# Let's connect!! 🌍
